## Super Power Chat GPT:
### [Download](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/superpower-chatgpt/amhmeenmapldpjdedekalnfifgnpfnkc)
### Repo: N/A
### Description (Per the authors):
Add extra functionality to ChatGPT user interface including prompt library, export chats, safe mode control, history, copy full chat
Add the following improvements to the ChatGPT user interface.
* Add history to user input. Just use the Up/Down Arrow key in the input box to go through your input history
* Prompt Library. Get inspiration from other prompts created by the GPT Community and share your prompts too
* Add input history modal. Scroll through all your input history in a minimalistic design
* Easily search through your input history and hundreds of prompt examples
* Mark input as favorite in the history modal
* Export one/all of your conversation into multiple formats(.txt, .json, .md)
* Add word and character counters. See the number of words and characters of each result generated by ChatGPT AI.
* Easily copy each chat with a click of a button
* Enable/Disable Safe Mode
* Timestamps for all chats
More features coming soon...

## WebChatGPT:
### [Download](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/webchatgpt/lpfemeioodjbpieminkklglpmhlngfcn)
### [Repo](https://github.com/qunash/chatgpt-advanced/)
### Description (Per the authors):

Augment your ChatGPT prompts with relevant results from the web.
This extension adds relevant web results to your prompts to ChatGPT for more accurate and up-to-date conversations.

ℹThis is an open-source project, the source code is publicly available for anyone to review and contribute to at https://github.com/qunash/chatgpt-advanced/.
We only ask for bare minimum permissions and do not collect any user data.
